Work in:
/Users/rklinkhammer/workspace/containerlab-workspace

Implement an architecture-led transition from the qualification preview
to an installed application for deploying and interacting with real
Containerlab labs.

Preserve the existing sibling-directory arrangement and unrelated changes.
Treat containerlab-investigation, GraphX and containerlab-vrt as read-only
reference sources unless separately authorized to modify them.

Read:
- AGENTS.md
- IMPLEMENTATION_HANDOFF.md
- artifacts/design/COMPLETION.json
- Current architecture, decisions, contracts and traceability
- artifacts/design/INSTALLED_WORKFLOW.md
- GUI_COMPARISON.md and GUI_DIRECTION_PROMPT.md
- A30–A33 implementation results
- packaging/ and relevant frontend/backend/native code
- The pinned official Containerlab corpus and its failure dispositions

Verify the published baseline before relying on it. If user rebuilds or
other changes caused manifest drift, explain and preserve the differences;
do not regenerate hashes merely to conceal them.

The A32 snapshot is a recovery checkpoint. Preserve historical evidence
and qualification outcomes. Earlier experiment-focused workflows are
lessons and regression sources, not the desired product experience.

PRODUCT WORKFLOW

The user launches the installed application with a topology path:

    containerlab-gui /path/to/topology.clab.yml

The application starts a local webserver and opens the browser GUI.

Containerlab natively loads the selected topology and its required context.
Before deployment, the GUI presents the user's selected configuration
with an explicit “Not deployed” state. Do not display prerecorded topology
or runtime evidence as a substitute for loading or observation.

The user presses GO. The application invokes Containerlab deployment,
shows progress and actionable errors, enrolls the resulting runtime
identities, and begins live monitoring.

The user interacts with nodes and links, views logs, and captures traffic.
Closing the browser does not destroy the lab. Reopening reconnects to
the application. An explicit Stop lab action invokes native teardown.

ARCHITECTURAL REQUIREMENTS

1. Separate application, user project and runtime state.

   The installed package contains no example topology bundles, fixture
   catalogs, recorded graphs or developer evidence-view interface.
   Test resources remain outside production artifacts.

   User YAML and companion files remain user-owned project data.
   Mutable application/runtime state lives outside the installation.

   Replace mandatory fixture-catalog dependencies with a generic project
   loading contract. Preserve original bytes, relative layouts, native
   kinds, unknown attributes and source provenance.

   Define handling of templates, environment values, referenced files,
   missing context and project changes. Never silently fabricate or repair
   inputs, execute topology hooks during loading, or transfer an entire
   directory without an explicit inventory and containment policy.

2. Keep Containerlab authoritative.

   Use supported, pinned native interfaces for topology loading,
   deployment, inspection and destruction.

   Do not implement an alternative YAML semantics engine, topology DSL,
   deployment engine or custom network control plane.

   Graph data is a projection. Keep declared configuration, deployment
   progress and observed runtime state distinct.

   Native kinds such as SR Linux and generic_vm must retain their native
   identity and capability limits.

3. Implement the local application and runtime boundary.

   The browser communicates with the local backend, never directly with
   a privileged daemon socket.

   On macOS, use an explicitly owned Linux runtime for Containerlab and
   privileged helpers. Define the supported architecture, image,
   dependency versions, transport and resource requirements.

   Separate:
   - Project loading
   - Deployment lifecycle
   - Runtime identity/enrollment
   - Observation and event delivery
   - Node logs
   - Link capture and packet analysis

   Prefer cohesive modules and the existing qualified mechanisms over
   speculative services, databases or brokers.

4. Make deployment an application function.

   Define explicit states and transitions for loading, ready, deploying,
   running, degraded/partially deployed, stopping, stopped, disconnected
   and failed.

   Prevent overlapping GO/Stop operations and accidental duplicate labs.
   Bind operations to the selected project revision and owned deployment.

   Preserve partial-deployment errors and provide scoped recovery.
   Never adopt same-name replacement containers silently.

   Define cancellation behavior, startup recovery, browser reconnect,
   application restart and runtime restart. Do not equate a running
   container with application readiness or health.

5. Deliver live GUI updates.

   Select and justify an event transport such as SSE or WebSocket.
   Reuse bounded native polling where appropriate behind that transport.

   Include ordering, timestamps, freshness, cancellation, backpressure,
   reconnect/resynchronization and explicit stale/unavailable states.

   Node and link selections must remain bound to the correct deployment.
   Late responses must not restore data from an earlier project, node,
   link or runtime session.

   Reuse initial-development lessons on identity checks, safe rendering,
   resource limits, supported native kinds and actionable diagnostics.

6. Make capture a link-level interaction.

   Selecting a link identifies the capture target. Do not require the
   user to select an endpoint, interface, namespace or container.

   The user supplies the PCAP filename and relevant file/capture settings:
   duration, size/rotation/retention where implemented, capture filter,
   TShark display filter and supported reviewed Lua configuration.

   The backend resolves the exact deployed link to a qualified capture
   point. Define stable selection rules for ordinary veth links and
   explicit capability handling for other native link families.

   Do not silently capture both endpoints, duplicate packets, omit a
   direction or invent a capture point. Explain unsupported or ambiguous
   capture cases without exposing internal endpoint selection machinery.

   Define where PCAP files reside, how filenames are validated, overwrite
   behavior, quotas, download/save behavior and cleanup. A displayed
   filename must correspond to an actual artifact, not merely UI state.

   Keep capture-time filtering separate from post-capture analysis.
   Preserve artifact identity and bytes during reanalysis. Retain the
   lessons from capture cancellation, expiry and Lua containment.
   Arbitrary Lua execution remains unavailable unless separately qualified.

7. Preserve generic node interactions.

   Provide actual supported node logs and clear unsupported/unavailable
   states. Preserve bounded output, follow/stop and identity-safe switching.

   Serial remains capability-gated. Do not invent serial ports for ordinary
   containers or treat shell/SSH/monitor listeners as serial consoles.

   Preserve A31/A32 findings; the ARM generic_vm blocker must not prevent
   delivery of the container-only workflow.

   Do not hardcode four-radio names, counts, images, roles, protocol details
   or application behavior anywhere in generic production logic.

8. Ship and test an installed product.

   Build a versioned package with explicit bundled and external
   dependencies, licenses, hashes and installation instructions.

   Separate build-time tools from runtime requirements. A user must not
   need this repository, sibling repositories, private .runtime snapshots,
   npm, Go or C++ builds to launch the application.

   Resolve and document runtime and lab-image acquisition explicitly.
   Do not assume locally built images exist.

   Provide installed diagnostics and clear start/status/stop/uninstall
   behavior. GUI upgrades or removal must not implicitly destroy labs.

   Address the first package's lessons:
   - No copied fixture directory or embedded recorded graphs
   - No Homebrew-linked Node binary masquerading as self-contained
   - No dependency on current working directory
   - No experiment-only VM names, session files or short leases
   - No developer build instructions presented as user installation steps

   Investigate the pkgbuild permission diagnostics and verify package
   contents. Distinguish archive installation, Installer transactions,
   signing/notarization and actual installed execution.

VALIDATION THROUGH REAL USER WORKFLOWS

Use both the user's four-radio project and standard Containerlab demos.

Pin the official demo source revision and retain the existing 177-case
historical denominator. Do not ship those demos in the application.

Maintain separate evidence for:
- Native loading
- Graph projection/rendering
- Deployment
- Runtime observation
- Logs
- Capture/analysis
- Installed user experience

Select a representative runnable official-demo batch before execution.
State the coverage rationale and independent expectations, including
multiple node kinds, link shapes, parallel links and disconnected nodes
where available.

Record image, architecture, license and external-context blockers
individually. A demo that cannot deploy must not disappear from loading
or visualization coverage. Never claim every official example deploys
because a selected batch passes.

Use recorded fixtures for automated regression tests only. They cannot
satisfy live or installed acceptance.

Required end-to-end acceptance:
1. Install outside the repository.
2. Launch with a user-supplied topology path.
3. Load it through Containerlab's native mechanisms.
4. Press GO in the GUI and observe actual deployment progress.
5. Observe real node/interface/link updates.
6. Select a node and view/follow its actual logs.
7. Select a link and capture without choosing an endpoint.
8. Inspect/filter/reanalyze and save the actual PCAP.
9. Close/reopen the browser and reconnect without redeploying.
10. Exercise a controlled failure and display actionable recovery.
11. Stop the lab through the GUI and verify scoped native cleanup.

Run this workflow against selected official demos and the complete
four-radio example, whose current topology contains eight native nodes.
Do not modify the original example merely to satisfy the GUI.

USER EXPERIENCE AND REVIEW

Preserve useful aspects of the approved GraphX-inspired layout.
Remove qualification-oriented navigation and terminology from the
production user flow.

Present concrete graphical layouts before committing to material
presentation changes. Request user review and iterate until explicitly
approved. Existing layout approval does not automatically approve a
material redesign.

Continue independent backend, packaging and regression work while
visual review is pending.

Keep a user-task issue list: intended action, actual behavior,
presentation problem, proposed change and retest result.

RUNTIME AUTHORIZATION AND SAFETY

This task authorizes implementation, packaging and runtime qualification
using newly created, explicitly owned resources.

Never access or reuse pre-existing Lima VMs.

Disposable qualification VMs must be cleaned up and stopped.
The separately identified user-interaction environment is intended to
remain running until the user explicitly stops it. Document its ownership,
capacity, retention, shutdown and recovery before creating it; do not
apply an experiment auto-shutdown lease to that environment.

Use port 4173 without terminating unrelated processes.
Ordinary builds/tests must not create VMs or deploy labs automatically.

TT-01 remains active: login and multi-user authorization are out of scope.
Retain containment, exact runtime identity, disclosure allowlists, safe
rendering and bounded operations.

DELIVERABLES AND EXECUTION ORDER

First produce:
- A concise current-to-target architecture and interaction diagram
- A gap analysis identifying reusable code versus experiment coupling
- Contracts for project loading, lifecycle, runtime events and link capture
- A complete dependency inventory with unresolved items explicitly marked
- Independent installed-workflow acceptance criteria
- A dependency-ordered implementation plan

Record the corrected direction in architecture, decisions, traceability
and handoff using D-15 archival/publication rules. Preserve historical
evidence and unrelated work.

Then implement the dependency-ordered slices. Do not stop at a static
viewer, packaging wrapper or plan when independent authorized
implementation can proceed. Keep genuinely blocked capabilities explicit.

Finish with:
- Installation artifact and reproducible user commands
- What works through the installed application
- Actual official-demo and four-radio results
- Failed and unrun checks separately identified
- Remaining unsupported capabilities
- User-visible issues awaiting review
- Exactly which owned resources remain running
- Explicit stop, recovery and uninstall instructions

Do not claim continuous monitoring, application health, universal fidelity
or complete feature readiness beyond the actual evidence.